doc: OData client JS usage (#189)
SAP/cloud-sdk: docs/js/features/odata/generate-client.md

---
id: generator-js-sdk
title: Generate a typed OData client for JavaScript
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false

> sidebar_label: Generate an OData client for JavaScript

Reviewer: Are the title and sidebar label intentionally different? They have almost the same length...

keywords:
- sap
- cloud
- sdk
- odata
- JavaScript 
- TypeScript
- generate
author: Charles Dubois
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> ## Generate a typed OData client with the OData Generator

Reviewer: Maybe SAP Cloud SDK generator or OData client generator?

> The generator allows you to generate a custom OData client library for any service. You can then easily access these services via the client libraries.

Reviewer: not any service - only OData services ;)

There are two way to use the generator:
- Via the command line interface (CLI)

> - By instantiating and invoking it at runtime

Reviewer: I wouldn't make a list here, this is not important enough to highlight it that way. Maybe just: "The SAP Cloud SDK generator can both be used as a command line interface (CLI) and programmatically."

> For any of them you need to have an `EDMX` file holding the service metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All you need to use it is a service metadata specification in the `EDMX` format (file ending can be `.edmx` or `.xml`).
```

## Installation

Run this command in your project's terminal to install the generator globally.
```sh
npm install -g @sap-cloud-sdk/generator
```

:::note

> The generator is included in the SAP cloud-sdk-cli, if you have it installed you don't need to install the generator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generator is included in the SAP Cloud SDK CLI, if you have it installed you don't need to install the generator.
```

:::

## Usage

> ### Using the CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### From the Command Line
```

The generator is primarily meant to be used on the command line:

```sh

> generate-odata-client --inputDir path/to/your/service-specification(s) --outputDir path/where/the/modules/are/stored

Reviewer: ```suggestion
generate-odata-client --inputDir path/to/your/service-specification(s) --outputDir path/to/store/generated/modules
```

```

Run `generate-odata-client --help` for further options.

### Invoke the generator programmatically

> You can also use the generator programmatically. You will have to provide the options anyways.

Reviewer: Why `anyways`?

I would recommend to write the code below as one code snippet with some comments and describe it in a text below. That ways it becomes clearer what the actual code is and people can copy it to try.

1. Import the generator in your project.
```ts
import { generateProject } from '@sap-cloud-sdk/generator';
```

2. Create your options, adapt the input & output directory as well as the package name according to your setup.
```ts

> const options: GeneratorOptions = initializeOptions();

Reviewer: `initializeOptions` is not defined anywhere.

Author: I don't know how to use the generator in typescript, only code I found was https://github.com/SAP/cloud-sdk/blob/master/packages/generator/README.md

Author: If I could get a code snippet showing the generator in typescript that would be great

Reviewer: Makes sense. The generator unfortunately need way more options to be invoked programatically then when you use it on the CLI. Take a look at the [generate test services script](https://github.com/SAP/cloud-sdk/blob/10621361dc106ff5e05e1c92e55ce871c8fe2d59/scripts/generate-test-services.ts#L41). There we use the generator to generate our own test services (and do some more stuff. I would recommend to play around with it and find out which are the mandatory parameters (as I said, there are a lot of them unfortunately - we will fix that at some point I hope).

```
3. Create your project datastructure with all sourcefiles based on your options
```ts
const project = generateProject(options);
```

4. Modify your project if you need to, then save the files at the specified location.
```ts
project.save();
```
3. & 4. Alternatively you can generate and save the project in one step with:
```ts
generate(options)
```

## Options

:::note

> All parameters can be used in the command line, even if they have no alias:  

Reviewer: Why would that not be the case if there is no alias?! I would move that section up to the CLI part. It makes more sense there.

|`forceOverwrite`| - | `false` | Exit when encountering a file that already exists. When set to true, it will be overwritten instead. Please note that compared to the --clearOutputDir option, this will not delete outdated files. |
|`clearOutputDir`| - | `false` | Deletes EVERYTHING in the specified output directory before generating code. |
|`generateNpmrc`| - | `true` | Generate a .npmrc file specifying a registry for @sap scoped dependencies. |
|`generateTypedocJson`| - | `true` | Generates a typedoc.json file for each package, used for the corresponding "doc" npm script. |
|`generatePackageJson`| - | `true` | Generate a package.json file, specifying dependencies and scripts for compiling and generating documentation. |
|`versionInPackageJson`| - | `true?` | By default, when generating package.json file, the generator will set a version by using the generator version. It can also be set to a specific version. |
|`generateJs`| - | `true` | Generates transpiled .js, .js.map, .d.ts and .d.ts.map files. When set to false, the generator will only generate .ts files. |
|`generateCSN`| - | `false` | A CSN file will be generated for each service definition in the output directory. |

> ## Hidden Options

Reviewer: I think we should not describe the hidden options. What do you think @mr-flannery?

Reviewer 2: Agreed. All of these options are only used for the generation of the vdm packages we ship ourselves, so they're by nature not very useful to consumers. So I don't think anyone would get much benefit of this documentation.

The SAP Cloud SDK generator can both be used as a command line interface (CLI) and programmatically.

All you need to use it is a service metadata specification in the `EDMX` format (file ending can be `.edmx` or `.xml`).

## Installation

Run this command in your project's terminal to install the generator globally.
```sh
npm install -g @sap-cloud-sdk/generator
```

:::note
The generator is included in the SAP Cloud SDK CLI. If you installed the CLI, you don't need to install the generator separately.
:::

## Using the OData Generator

### Using the Command Line Interface

The SAP Cloud SDK generator is primarily intended to be used on the command line.

Run
```shell
generate-odata-client --inputDir path/to/your/service-specifications --outputDir path/to/store/generated/modules
```

Adapt the `path/to/your/service-specifications` to the directory containing your service specifications in `EDMX` format, for example `service-specifications/`. Also adapt `path/to/store/generated/modules` to your OData client directory for example `odata-client`.

> This will generate OData clients for all your service specifications, but also in the inputDir a new file is created: `serviceMapping.json`.
> 
> Inside this file, the `servicePath` has to be defined manually. Depending on the service that you are using, your `serviceMapping.json` could look like this:
> 
> ```json
> {
>   "RCMCandidate": {
>     "directoryName": "sfo-data-service",
>     "servicePath": "/odata/v2",
>     "npmPackageName": "sfo-data-service"
>   }
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will generate OData clients for all your service specifications and create a `serviceMapping.json` in your input directory. This file is used for generation and contains a mapping from the original file name to the following information:
* `directoryName` - the name of the subdirectory the client code will be generated to.
* `servicePath` - the url path to be prepended before every request. This is read from the EDMX file if available, otherwise the value here will be `VALUE_IS_UNDEFINED`. In that case it should be adjusted manually.
* `npmPackageName` - the name of the npm package, if a package json is generated. This information is optional.

These information can be adjusted manually and ensure that every run of the generator produces the same names for the generation.

Example:
```json
{
  "MyService": {
    "directoryName": "my-service",
    "servicePath": "/odata/v2",
    "npmPackageName": "my-service"
  }
}
```

```

By default, the generated module contains the following sources:
- TypeScript code `.ts`
- Transpiled JavaScript code `.js`
- Type definition files `.d.ts`
- Source map files `.js.map` and `.d.ts.map`
- `.npmrc`
- `package.json`
- `typedoc.json`
- `tsconfig.json`

> Depending on which of those files you need, you can skip the generation of most of those.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on which of those files you need, you can skip the generation of most of those - see the options below.
```

|`generateNpmrc`| - | `true` | Generate a .npmrc file specifying a registry for @sap scoped dependencies. |
|`generateTypedocJson`| - | `true` | Generates a typedoc.json file for each package, used for the corresponding "doc" npm script. |
|`generatePackageJson`| - | `true` | Generate a package.json file, specifying dependencies and scripts for compiling and generating documentation. |
|`versionInPackageJson`| - | `true?` | By default, when generating package.json file, the generator will set a version by using the generator version. It can also be set to a specific version. |
|`generateJs`| - | `true` | Generates transpiled .js, .js.map, .d.ts and .d.ts.map files. When set to false, the generator will only generate .ts files. |
|`generateCSN`| - | `false` | A CSN file will be generated for each service definition in the output directory. |

### Invoke the generator programmatically

You can also use the generator programmatically. You will have to provide the options.

```ts
import { generate } from '@sap-cloud-sdk/generator';
import path from 'path';

//Create your options, adapt the input & output directory
//as well as the package name according to your setup.

> const serviceSpecsDir = path.join('test-resources', 'service-specs');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const inputDir = path.join('service-specifications');
```

> const outputDir = "odata-client";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const outputDir = 'odata-client';
```

//Create your project datastructure with all sourcefiles based on your options
const generatorConfig = {
  forceOverwrite: true,
  generateJs: false,
  useSwagger: false,
  writeReadme: false,
  clearOutputDir: true,
  generateNpmrc: false,
  generateTypedocJson: false,
  generatePackageJson: false,
  generateCSN: false,

>   // Unnecessary options

Reviewer: This comment should be removed!

```suggestion
```

  sdkAfterVersionScript: false,
  s4hanaCloud: false
  /*optional:

>   serviceMapping: "test/directory",

Reviewer: Make sure to use the same quote style throughout the documentation. We should use the same style we use in our code - single quotes `'`

---
id: generator-js-sdk
title: Generate an OData client for JavaScript
hide_title: false
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_label: Generate an OData client for JavaScript
keywords:
- sap
- cloud
- sdk
- odata
- JavaScript 
- TypeScript
- generate
author: Charles Dubois
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Generate a typed OData client with the SAP Cloud SDK generator

> The generator allows you to generate custom OData clients libraries for OData services. You can then easily access these services via the client libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generator allows you to generate custom OData client libraries for OData services. You can then easily access these services via the client libraries.
```

The SAP Cloud SDK generator can both be used as a command line interface (CLI) and programmatically.

All you need to use it is a service metadata specification in the `EDMX` format (file ending can be `.edmx` or `.xml`).

## Installation

Run this command in your project's terminal to install the generator globally.
```sh
npm install -g @sap-cloud-sdk/generator
```

:::note

> The generator is included in the SAP Cloud SDK CLI, if you have it installed you don't need to install the generator separately.

Reviewer: Sorry this sentence still sounds weird. Maybe split it into two.
```suggestion
The generator is included in the SAP Cloud SDK CLI. If you installed the CLI, you don't need to install the generator separately.
```

Reviewer: BTW, I never tried the generator from the CLI myself, but maybe you can try it out and in case there is a difference in how this is invoked add it to the usage section below. ( I could imagine that it is something like `sap-cloud-sdk generate-odata-client ...`).

:::

## Usage

### From the Command Line

> The generator is primarily meant to be used on the command line:

Reviewer: If you still find some time consider giving this a bit more life ;) Maybe in the direction of:

The SAP Cloud SDK generator is primarily intended to be used on the command line. Run

```sh
generate-odata-client --inputDir path/to/your/service-specifications --outputDir path/to/store/generated/modules
```

This will generate OData clients for all your service specifications within the `path/to/your/service-specifications` directory in `EDMX` format and write the to the ` path/to/store/generated/modules` directory.

But this is just from the top of my head. I think at least explaining that those are the mandatory parameters and what they do in textual form might be helpful for understanding what to do.
